# JS Ajax

## Learning Objectives

- Understand what a REST api is
- Understand how to make an api call using JS
- Understand what JSON is
- Understand the difference between a JSON string and a JSON object

## Duration
45 mins

# Intro

A lot of what we do on the web is going to involve apis. This could be our own apis that we build, or it could be consuming an api someone else has made. There's all sorts of cool apis we can use, from weather data to spotify. Either way, we are going to want to grab some data and do something with it. The good news is this is fairly easy in JS and pretty neat too.

# Rest APIs

Do you remember what REST is? We used restful routes in our Sinatra apps when we made our applications, that adhered to the 7 restful routes. The good news is that most apis adhere to these rules too so it makes them really easy to use.

Before we go any further, go and grab the JSON formatter extension for Chrome:

https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/json-formatter/bcjindcccaagfpapjjmafapmmgkkhgoa?hl=en

This will make it a lot easier to read our JSON results.

Let's have a look at the api we are going to use today - the rest countries api.

https://restcountries.eu/

### Task
Have a read of the documentation and the routes. 
Visit them in your browser and look at the data.

So the main route we are going to use today is this one

https://restcountries.eu/rest/v2/all

This gives us ALL the country data.

> If the API is down there is a very similar version at https://restcountries.herokuapp.com/api/v1 - country name is slightly different to access but otherwise works the same.

# JS HTTP Requests

The key point about about making requests in JS is that the client requests information from the server in the background and doesn't interrupt the user on the page. There's no reloading anymore, it's all seamless. Exciting right??

Let's have a go.

## Our first JS HTTP request

So we made a simple web page a few minutes ago. Lets use that. We want to add a function that can used anywhere in the page.

```
  <script type="text/javascript">
    function clicked() {
      console.log("clicked");
    }
  </script>
```

So we have a function that at some point will get called. How can we do that?

Lets add a button to our page.

```
  <button">Click me!</button>
```

Okay now we have a button...but when we click it nothing happens. Lets have it so when we click a button, it will run our clicked function.
```
  <button onClick="clicked()">Click me!</button>
```

Cool, now when we look at the console, we can see our js function running. Perfect. Now lets work out a request.

So we are gonna hit an API someone else created.

We are going to be using the fetch method. For now we are gonna just run a simple get request like we did with insomnia. 


```
  fetch("https://restcountries.eu/rest/v2/all")
```

So we ran this and nothing happened. That's because we need to tell it what to do after it fetches. Introducing promises.

With promises, you can queue up event in a nice clean wait, as well as handle errors too! Using the then and catch functions.

```
  fetch("https://restcountries.eu/rest/v2/all")
  .then(function(resp) {
      console.log(resp);
    })
```

Okay lets run that. Hmm, its a response alright but where is the response from the server. Well first we need to convert it into a javascript object. So we can call resp.json().

```
  fetch("https://restcountries.eu/rest/v2/all")
  .then(function(resp) {
      console.log(resp.json());
    })
```

Hmm, another promise. Okay, so it will get to that when it can. For then we can queue up the promise.

```
  fetch("https://restcountries.eu/rest/v2/all")
  .then(function(resp) {
      return resp.json()
    })
  .then(function(json) {
    console.log(json[0]);
  });
```

And we get back a js array with all our information. We can access just the first item.

Sweet. Okay, so how do we handle errors? Easy, at the end we can say if anything goes wrong it any of our callbacks, do this.

```
  .catch(function(err) {
    console.log(err);
  });
```

And there we go, all safe and sound if we type the wrong url etc.



