# Setting up a new project.

Okay, so we are going to open up a Visual Studio and create a console application. 

```
    Create console application
    Call it ORMTutorial.
```

So there a few ways to that you can use Entity Framework. One way is to use a Database First approach. That is, you create or alter the table first, then you generate code from that table. 

The second approach will be the Code first approach, that is you write the code and ask Entity Framework to create the migration scripts neccessary to alter your database to match your code.

We will be using the Code first approach as this way we can show you how migrations with Entity Framework work.

First thing we need to do is install our Entity Framework Core packages, to do this we will be using a handy tool called a nuget package manager. There are thousands of libraries and frameworks out there and nuget package manager makes it easy for us to get them.

```
    Go to project
    Select add packages
    Search for Microsoft.EntityFramework core and install it.
    Accept the licences.
    Search for NPGSQL.EntityFramework core postgresql provider and install it.
```

As you can see, it added the framework into our project. We can now use it.

For this exercise, we are gonna be using the concept of a a Branch and bank accounts. We will start by creating a branch mode, doing migrations and then add onto that with our one to many relationship.

So first thing we want to do is create our branch model. It's just going to contain our ID which will be our primary key, the branch name which will be a string and sort code which will also be a string.

So if we right click the ORMTutorial solution and say
```
    Right click ORMTutorial
    Click add new file
    New class
    Name it Branch
```

We will remove the constructor as its not needed.

```
    using System;
    namespace ORMTutorial
    {
        public class Branch
        {
        }
    }
```

Next we will add our Properties that will map to the database.

```
    public int BranchId { get; set; }
    public string BranchName { get; set; }
    public string SortCode { get; set; }
```

So we need to use attributes in our code so EntityFramework knows what we want to do with this model. To make the Key property our primary key, we add the [Key] attribute.

```
    [Key]
    public int BranchId { get; set; }
```

It will go red, if we type alt-enter on that, it will provide suggestions. We want to import the namespace.

```
    using System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations;
```

So for the next two fields, lets say we want them to be non null, we can use the [Required] attribute for SortCode and BranchName. Since required is in DataAnnotations, we do not need to import it again.

Next, we don't want to be able to store the max about possible, we want to set a maximum length. This is were the [MaxLength] comes into place. We can specify a length that the column cannot exceed. There are more attributes that we could also use (such as MinLength etc);

Lets give the BranchName a length of 20 and SortCode a length of 6 (00-00-00).

```
    [Key]
    public int BranchId { get; set; }

    [Required]
    [MaxLength(20)]
    public string BranchName { get; set; }

    [Required]
    [MaxLength(6)]
    public string SortCode { get; set; }
```

So we have our model set up, the next step is to add our configuration file. This configuration will contain our database connection details.

So we will right click our soluton, add new file, and add a new json file and call it app. In there we will type.

```
    {
      "connectionString": "host=localhost; database=ormtutorial"
    }
```

Make sure we select copy to output folder so that our EF can find it in our build folder.

The next step will be to extend the dbcontext class. This class will be our wrapper that we will use to interact with the database.

```
    Create a BankEntities class so add new class with that name.
    Bank entites should extend DbContext    
    Import EntityFrameWork core
    Take out empty constructor
```

Next we need to override the configuration logic that DbContext had but first  we need to import the nuget package that will let us fetch those configuration options.

```
    add nuget package Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration
    add nuget package Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.Json
```

We also need to add DbSet which tells our context what our database looks like.

And in BankEntities.cs
```
    using System.IO;
    using ExampleApi.Models;
    using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore;
    using Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration;
```

```
 public class BankEntities : DbContext
    {
        public DbSet<Branch> Branches { get; set; } 

        protected override void OnConfiguring(DbContextOptionsBuilder optionsBuilder)
        {
            var config = new ConfigurationBuilder()
                .SetBasePath(Directory.GetCurrentDirectory())
                .AddJsonFile("app.json")
                .Build();


            optionsBuilder.UseNpgsql(config["connectionString"]);
        }
    }
```

Okay, we have a few things set up, lets run our migration. We have an empty database. EntityFramework will map our models to our database and create a migration script for us to run. We will be using our terminal to do this.

We will add the tools package for EF so we can call the nice migration commands.

```
    Install nuget package Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Tools
```

And lastly, open up our ORMTutorial.csproj and insert this below the other group. 

```
    <ItemGroup>
        <DotNetCliToolReference Include="Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Tools.DotNet" Version="1.0.0" />
     </ItemGroup>
```

Now restore the packages.

```
    cd to ~/Project/ORMTutorial
    dotnet restore
```

All good. Finally lets run add the migration.

```
    cd ORMTutorial
    dotnet ef migrations add InitialCreate
```

EF will create a migrations folder with a few files, a good file to look at will be the file that is called {date}_{migrationname}.cs. This file has an up and a down method that defines the migration and how it will be rolledback. You can see it is adding all the properties from our model.

To run the migration we will just say

```
    dotnet ef database update
```

And we can see what commands are actually run. It first created the database and then our table.

You will notice that it created a Migrations table, this lets EF know which migrations have run as well as which ones will be rolled back if needed. 

If we wanted to rollback all our migrations so we can start again. Then we can say

```
    dotnet ef database update 0
```

We will look at rolling back individual migrations as well later.
