# Setting up ASP .NET API

## Intro to ASP .NET

So for these lessons, we are going to be setting up a standard ASP .NET Core API. We will test these out with insomnia. 

Finally we will hook these up with an ORM background and use our restful client to hit our API.

For now, we will be creating a simple API that only returns JSON, we will look at plugging in a front end after we go through javascript.

## Creating a new project.

Okay, so lets open up visual studio for mac and create a new API project. 

```
    New project
    Call it ExampleApi
```

Okay, so we have a new project. We can see it has created a controller with a few routes off the bat so we got our CRUD operations covered.

```
    GET (Read)
    GET {ID} (Read)
    POST (Create)
    PUT {ID} (Update)
    DELETE {ID} (Delete)
```


Before we do anything, lets change the example controller route that was created from:

```
    api/[controller]
```

to

```
    api/values
```


### Running our project
Lets run the project and see what will happen.

We can see it opened up chrome on port 51401 but since its API only we don't have anything on that route. There is however information on /api/values.

### Accessing our routes through a browser
Lets go to that on our browser.

We can see it has converted it automatically to JSON for us. This is key as our front end will use that in the future to render our site.

So how do we get the other routes?

Well to get the get by id one, we can just go to /api/values/5 in our browser.

Lets put a breakpoint. As you can see, it has interpeted the 5 and converted it to an int for us. 

Note: What will happen if were to type an invalid number?

We can see the server will protect us and change it to 0, since an ID will not be 0 we can handle that in our routes.

### Accessing other HTTP methods 

So how can we access non get methods on an API only server. We don't have JS or HTML. Lucikly we can use restful clients to do this.

```
    Start up insomnia.
```

Lets say we want a GET request. Put our url in

```
    localhost:51401/api/values
```

And click send. Great we got what we had in our browser. Lets do the same for our GET {ID}.

```
    localhost:51401/api/values/5
```

Again it works. Cool, lets get the other HTTP methods.

Change it to a Post and remove the 5. 

```
    POST localhost:51401/api/values/
    with body create
```

POST can pass up a body. So we will pass up a string hello and breakpoint so we can see it appear in our variable in our project.

For put, we need to do both. So we need to pass an ID, that is the ID we want to update, and in the body will be the string we want to update.

```
    PUT localhost:51401/api/values/5
    with body update
```

And we can see it working.

Finally, the delete operation there is no body as you normally do it by id. So we can change the request to delete. This method should go and delete the requested object.

```
    DELETE localhost:51401/api/values/5
```

And again we can see it working. Cool, so lets now start plugging our things into a database. We can check that stuff is added using our restful client.



