# Directives

## What is a directive

A directive are attributes on HTML that let you extend functionality. It is kind of the thing that makes angular so useful when building dynamic pages.

A directive which we have used is ng-app, which loads the module for the element and nested elements.

### ng-init
Another directive could be ng-init, which allows us to set initial variables. 

```
    ng-init="firstName='John';lastName='Bob'"
```

So this initialised those values so it can be used for nested elements. We can then show these values using expressions.

```
    {{ firstName + " " + lastName }}
```

And our name displays. Nice!.

### ng-model & data binding

So lets say we wanted our application to be responsive. What if we wanted to modify the firstName or lastName and it to also update the object too?. So we created a firstName but it will always be John...not very dynamic.

Lets create two input boxes.
```
First: <input  />
LastName:    <input />

{{firstName + " " + lastName}}
```

Okay cool, we got an input box but its not tied to anything. It just holds text and thats it. But if we tell it to bind to a variable (model) then angular will dynamiically update that variable and re-render the information as well!.

So lets just update the last name

```
    First: <input  />
    LastName:    <input ng-model="lastName" />

    {{firstName + " " + lastName}}
```

Did you notice what happened? It already prepopulated the input box. Isn't that handy that depending on the value of lastName will be the value in the input box. And if we update the input box....

Then the expression we used will also change! How handy!

[Task 10 min]

* Do the same for firstName input Box.
* Add a new variable to ng-init, age and set it to 5
* Create a new entry in the html under lastname. Call it age and input box. Don't forget to add ng-model="age".
* Then do the same but this time add an email address.

A handy thing we can do is imagine if we had a shopping basket. You don't have to type this.

```
    <div ng-app="" ng-init="quantity=1;price=5">

        Quantity: <input ng-model="quantity">
        Costs:    <input ng-model="price">

        Total in pounds: {{ quantity * price }}

    </div>
```

It can dynamically update, perfect, we don't have to write a lot of logic, its easy peasy. Note how if we typed a character it will say NaN (Not A Number).

We can fix that. In html you can set input boxs to certain types. This isnt an angular feature but html standard.

```
    <div ng-app="" ng-init="quantity=1;price=5">

        Quantity: <input type="number" ng-model="quantity">
        Costs:    <input type="number" ng-model="price">

        Total in pounds: {{ quantity * price }}

    </div>
```

And there we go. 

### ng-repeat

If we wanted to repeat something, like for example for each item in an array, show this html. We will be using this later when we pull back our branches.

```
    <div ng-app="" ng-init="names=['Jani','Hege','Kai']">
      <ul>
        <li ng-repeat="x in names">
          {{ x }}
        </li>
      </ul>
    </div>
```

You can also invent your own directives.

So in site.js

```
    app.directive("myCustomDirective", function() {
        return {
            template : "<h1>Made by a directive!</h1>"
        };
    });
```

And in our html

```
    <div ng-app="" myCustomDirective>
    </div>
```